---
layout: post
title:  "Genesis of this site"
date:   2017-10-29 12:43:29 +0200
categories: jekyll blog
---
Starting a *serious* blog was on my mind for some time before I finally got
around to it. In 2015 as part of a communication class we had to create a
blog where we would write our assignments, no one in the class had any
experience with blogging so we all naturally started the blog on WordPress,
something everyone was sort-of familiar with. It was kind of *okay*, no one
actually read the blog outside class and after the semester ended the blog
died a sudden death. 

A year later the urge hit me again to create my own personal online space.
This urge was initiated by observing the effectiveness of one particular
blog. I was also getting deeper into GNU\Linux, modelling and coding,
sometimes solving problems that I could not find solutions for on the web
and I wanted to share all this. I decided to revisit the old blog, which
was not exciting at all. I had a juvenile name for my blog and I was
dreading the web interface. My enthusiasm was however strong and I pushed
forward and revamped the blog. After some initial posts and adding pictures
it was kind of *okay*, but I was not happy with it. I however made peace
with it.

Enter Jekyll. Late 2017 I stumbled upon a Jekyll site, heaven knowns why it
took me so long. I installed the Jekyll and did a *Jekyll serve* and there it
was. I was impressed. I started tweaking the default minima theme from my
command line and within a couple of hours I had a decent thing going, but
most importantly I felt in control. As I gained momentum I decided to look
for a real domain (.com/.co.za/.net). My name was not yet taken, it was
pretty cheap and I reckoned that I might as well do it anyway to prevent
someone from buying it and using it as a spam site so I just went for it.  

In order to make this blog actually reflect me and to really accomplish
my goals for starting this blog I decided to make a list here with some
blogging resolutions:


1. Be consistent, as with all things in life
+ More specifically, write regularly.
2. Share as much things useful as possible.
3. Keep it simple stupid:
+ If it feels cluttered, it is.
+ Keep the site static and fast.

As this blog evolves, it will hopefully become a more
informative and interesting. That's all for now.

____

Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll Talk][jekyll-talk].

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
